Creative coding.

Within the unit I have been learning how to create images by using nothing other than coding, the 3 main languages that I have been using during this assignment were P5js, HTML and java script.
During the time of this assignment I have been learning all these different languages and due to that my final piece will be quite basic due to the knowledge that I have of the topic and the assignment. When starting this assignment, when I was looking into what creative coding was and I also looked at some of the work that has already been done within the topic its self. One of the main things that stood out to me was the randomness of some of the piece that u did manage to find, one of the piece of work that stood out to me was by an artist called Robert Hodgin and the piece that he did that I took a liking to was called jelly. Another piece that I took inspiration from was also from Robert Hodgin and this piece was called Addition/Subtraction. These to piece were what made me want to use randomness with my final piece of work. The last piece of work that I though was helpful to my final piece was called Orbitals, this piece use circles and ellipses and makes them look like a tornado.
During the creation process I watched a lot of different YouTube tutorial and I my original idea was that I wanted to make a tornado that would change colour each time you move your mouse, however I wasn’t able to find anything that could help me create my original idea therefore I decide to make ellipse generate changing colours due to your mouse movement, the further away your mouse was the brighter the circle. I ran all different pieces of code to get the colour scheme correct and to get the sizing of the ellipses right. Once I got all the sizing correct I then decide if the background was too big or small.
The biggest difficulty of this assignment was that I couldn’t do my original idea due to the lack of knowledge I had of the topic therefore the biggest thing I would change if I had the change to do this again would be the amount of time that I had on the task, this would also allow me to develop more of an understanding of what I’m doing. Another big this with this assignment was that I didn’t enjoy the coding aspect of it therefore it was hard for me to get the idea and get the actually concept for what we were actually doing therefore I feel like have a small class before going straight into the assignment may have been a nice little extra, so I would have an understanding on what I’m actually working on and actually looking at. I think If I did more coding and practiced it a lot more it would have been a lot more of an easier task.
